.TH CTHGUGHA-L 1
.SH Name
Cthugha - An oscilloscope on acid. 
.SH Syntax
.B xcthugha [options]

.SH Description
"It gives credence to the phrase 'I can see music'...There is no real way to 
describe the patterns except as weird."
 - Australian PC Review Oct '94 

"Cthugha displays your sound card's CD, line or mic-input, then processes it 
into a hypnotic, swirling, 256-color confection for your eyes."
 - WIRED 3.03 (p. 156: Music to Your Eyes)

xcthugha uses X11 to display.

.SH "Command Line Options"

See the texinfo file for more information. Or run 'xcthugha --help' to
get a short list.
 
.SH Keys during display
Press F1 to get a short list of available command. 


.SH Contact/Shipping/legal things

Forward messages/postcards/CDs/money to me:

 Deischinger Harald   
 Am Edhuegel 45
 4115  Kleinzell
 AUSTRIA

 email: deischi@geocities.com
 www: http://www.geocities.com/CapeCanaveral/Lab/6386

.B Cthugha WWW-Page:
 http://www.afn.org/~cthugha

.B Cthugha newsgroup:
 alt.graphics.cthugha


 
.SH SHAREWARE  (PostcardWare/CDWare) 
Free for non-commercial use  -  Send a Postcard to show your appreciation.
If you have more money than you know what to do with, then send me a CD 
of something you like listening to with Cthugha on the screen... 
 
Really, there's no point sending me a cheque for $20-$30, because its going 
to cost to get it cashed anyway, and I'd probably go out and buy a CD with 
the money, so - if you want to send more than a postcard,  why not just send 
a CD instead ?? 
 
Commercial users register for US$50 or 2 CDs.
 
If you can't afford to register send a video tape (PAL preferably) of 
public performance or send a postcard :-) 
 
If you forward this program on to friends, make it available on a 
BBS, etc please include this document (un-adulterated). 
 
If you run a shareware house/store, the disk you sell this program on 
is not allowed to be sold for more than US$20. 
 
.B DISCLAIMER:
this software is provided 'as is' without waranty 
of any kind implied or expressed. 

 
If it works, great. 
If it doesn't, then that's your bad luck - send us some mail and we will try 
to fix it. 
 
.SH Acknowledgements
Cthugha-L was written by Harald Deischinger
(deischi@geocities.com). It is based on Cthugha V5.1 and V5.3
written by Kevin Burfitt (zaph@torps.apana.org.au) and many others.

If you have any questions, problems, bugs, ideas send e-mail to 
Harald Deischinger.

