\input texinfo    @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header

@c Use A4 paper - If you don't like that, remove the following 3 lines.
@iftex
@afourpaper
@end iftex

@setfilename cthugha.info
@settitle Cthugha-L An Oscilloscope on Acid

@finalout

@ifinfo
@copyright{} 1995-98 Deischinger Harald

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim
copies of this manual provided the copyright notice and
this permission notice are preserved on all copies.

@end ifinfo

@c %**end of header

@include version.texi

@set INSTLIB /usr/local/lib/cthugha-L

@titlepage

@title{Cthugha-L  @value{VERSION}}
@subtitle{An Oscilloscope on Acid}
@subtitle{DOCUMENTATION}

@author{Deischinger Harald}
@tex 
Am Edh\"ugel 45 
@end tex
@*
4115  Kleinzell @*
AUSTRIA           

email: @code{deischi@@geocities.com} @*
www: @code{http://www.geocities.com/CapeCanaveral/Lab/6386}

@vskip 0pt plus 1filll

last update: @value{UPDATED}

@copyright{} 1995-98 Deischinger Harald
 
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim
copies of this manual provided the copyright notice and
this permission notice are preserved on all copies.
  
@end titlepage
 













@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

@node	Top,	Introduction,	(dir),	(dir)

@ifinfo
@top Cthugha-L @value{VERSION}
@flushright 
An Oscilloscope on Acid
DOCUMENTATION

@value{UPDATED}
@end flushright
@end ifinfo

@menu
* Introduction::	Please read at least this part
* Mixed::               Several different things
* CoreOptions::         The "important" Options
* Configuration::       Configure Cthugha with ini-files and X11
                        resource database
* Parameters::          Description of all Parameters for Cthugha-L
* Keymaps::             Define your own keyboard mappings
* Technical Stuff::     Technical Stuff and compatibility notes
* Contact::             How to reach the author
@end menu










@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Introduction, Mixed, Top, Top

@chapter Introduction
@menu
* What?::               What does this software do then?
* Flavors::             The Different Flavors of Cthugha-L
* Fast Start::          First steps with Cthugha
* Buffer and Display::  Use of the @code{-S} and @code{-D} option
@end menu

@include introduction.texi



@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Mixed, CoreOptions, Introduction, Top

@chapter Mixed
@menu
* Hotkeys::             Saving settings to hotkeys
* Screen Saver::        Running @code{xcthugha} as a screen saver
* Pathes::              Where Cthugha searches for tab, map, pcx files
* Other OS::            Cthugha for DOS, PowerMac, Win95
* Rules::               If you want to modify the source
* Tips::                "Quer durch den Gemuesegarten"
* Press::               What the press says
* Who?::                Who's this Cthugha dude anyway?
* Future::              The future -- what will it bring?
@end menu

@include mixed.texi



@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node CoreOptions, Configuration, Mixed, Top

@chapter CoreOptions

Several options control the way Cthugha displays the sound. In lack of a
better name I use CoreOption for those (I you know a better name, please
tell me about it).

As you already know Cthugha uses (multiple) buffers that are mapped to
the screen. So all the CoreOptions (except the one controlling how the
buffers are mapped to the screen) are defined for each buffer.

The CoreOptions are
@table @emph
@item Display
How the buffers are mapped to the screen

@item Flame
How the buffers change from one time step to the next. 

@item General Flame
A Parameter used by some flame.

@item Border
What values to use for the upper and lower border of the buffer.

@item Translate
Defines a global movement on the buffers

@item Wave
How the sound data is drawn into the buffer

@item Sound Processing
Some filters for the sound. 

@item Table
How the palette is used by some of the waves.

@item WaveScale
A parameter controlling the size of some the waves.

@item Palette
What colors to use for this buffer.

@item PCX
The next image that will be used (displayed sometimes). This feature is
not working very well.

@item Flashlight
Change the palette based on beats. 
@end table


You can lock each of these CoreOptions individually. You can do this
either when starting Cthugha for example with @code{--display lock:up}
or when Cthugha is running: Press @code{o} to the a list of the current
CoreOptions, select the one you would like to lock and press @code{l}.

You can use the function keys (starting from @code{F5}) to get lists of
the possible values of all the CoreOptions.


@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@include configure.texi



@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Parameters, Keymaps, Configuration, Top

@chapter Parameters

For a (short) list use @code{xcthugha --help}.

Mose of the options can also
be used in a negative form to disable the feature. This is simply done
by including a @code{no-} in front of the options.  

When giving the options at the command line, you can use abbreviations
(like @code{--no-ins} as short for @code{--no-install}).

@menu
* Sound and CD::        Sound, CD and Mixer Options
* Automatic Changer::   How and when the display is changed automatically
* General CoreOptions:: General CoreOptions ("Buffer" options)
* Initial Values::      Initial values for CoreOptions
* Display::             Display options
* General::             Some more options
@end menu


@include parameters.texi


@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Keymaps, Technical Stuff, Parameters, Top

@chapter Keymaps

Since version 1.4 of Cthugha-L you can define your own keyboard
bindings. 

@code{#keymap name} marks the beginning of a new keymap. 
There must be no white spaces after @code{name}.
Then the keybindings are of the form @code{key action1(param1) action2(param2) ...}.
Commenets start with an @code{#} at the beginning of the line.
For an example of a keymap file see @code{src/default.keymap}.

Key presses in Cthugha are handled by a series of keymaps. When one
keymap can not handle the key, it is passed on to the next general one.
The sequence of keymaps is depending on the current interface mode
@table @emph
@item main interface
extraKeymap (as defined by the @code{setExtraKeymap} action)@*
@code{main}@*
@code{default}

@item Options, CoreOptions, Sound, ...
@code{CoreOptionElement} (only for CoreOptions), @code{OptionElement}@*
@code{CoreOption} for CoreOptions
@code{Option} or @code{Sound}, ...@*
@code{default} 

@item Screen, Flame, ... Lists
@code{Option} for the yes/no value in each line, and to move the selection@*
@code{Screen} or @code{Flame}, ...@*
@code{List}@*
@code{default}

@end table

An example keymap, that lets you select the flames by just one keypress.
@example
#keymap main
# turn on new flame keys
f   setExtraKeymap(flame)


#keymap flame

# go back to normal mode
q   setExtraKeymap()

a   flame(0)
# or use the flame name:  flame(clear)
s   flame(1)
d   flame(2)
...
@end example

@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Technical Stuff, Contact, Keymaps, Top

@chapter Technical Stuff

@menu
* General Stuff::       General Technical Information
* Palette Files::       How to specify what colors Cthugha should use
* Translation Tables::  Specify almost any effect
* PCX Files::           Display some extra images
@end menu

@include technical.texi







@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Contact, ,Technical Stuff, Top
@chapter Contact

@itemize @bullet
@item @strong{mail} address for postcards and CDs

Deischinger Harald @*
Am Edhuegel 45 @*
4115  Kleinzell @*
AUSTRIA           

Please send me a postcard if you like Cthugha!


@item @strong{email}: @code{deischi@@geocities.com} 

Please tell me also if you have problems with Cthugha, so I can (at
least try to) fix them.

@item @strong{WWW}

My private WWW address is
@code{http://www.geocities.com/CapeCanaveral/Lab/6386}. 
Sometimes you can find bug fixes under that address.

The official Cthugha home (for all operating systems) is
@code{http://www.afn.org/~cthugha}.

You download Cthugha from both sites.


@item @strong{FTP}

You can get Cthugha via FTP from @code{ftp.afn.org},
from the directory @code{/cthugha}.

Or use (a mirror site of) @code{sunsite.unc.edu}.
There you can Cthugha from the directory
@code{/pub/Linux/apps/sound/lightshow} (or @code{/pub/Linux/Incoming}
just after release of a new version).


That two FTP sites and the two WWW sites are the only
"official" sites of Cthugha-L.



@item @strong{news}: @code{alt.graphics.cthugha}

There is not much traffic on that list - but it is not completely dead.

@end itemize

If you write your postcard or mail in German, please use Du (and not Sie). 


 


@contents

@bye
