
@node Hotkeys, Screen Saver, Mixed, Mixed
@section Hotkeys

You can store up to 10 settings of the CoreOption (flame, display,
palette, ...) to hotkeys. 


To save the current setting press @code{h} (a message will appear on the
bottom of the screen) and then a number key. When using @code{xcthugha}
you can also use Shift + Number instead.

To restore the settings from the hotkeys, just press @code{0}, @code{1},
... @code{9}.


The values for the hotkeys are saved in
@code{~/.cthugha.auto} when you press @code{a}.




@node Screen Saver, Pathes, Hotkeys, Mixed
@section Screen Saver

I have removed the "native" screen saver support of @code{xcthugha}. So
you must use a program like @code{xscreensaver} 
@footnote{see @code{http://people.netscape.com/jwz/xscreensaver}}. 

You should specify the options @code{--root} and @code{--verbose=-1}.
The first will force @code{xcthugha} to draw onto the root window, the
second will suppress most text displayed.
So an entry for the resource database for @code{xcthugha} will look like

@example
   xscreensaver.programs: xcthugha --root --verbose=-1
@end example


Of course you can also add extra arguments to @code{xcthugha} as you need them.
For example @code{--zoom 1} to prevent @code{xcthugha} from filling the
whole screen.








@node Pathes, Other OS, Screen Saver, Mixed

@section Pathes

Cthugha will search in the following directories for translation tables,
palette files and pcx images:

@enumerate
@item Current directory for all 3 kinds of files
@item @code{./tab}, @code{./map} and @code{./pcx}
@item In @code{@value{INSTLIB}/tab/BUFF_WIDTHxBUFF_HEIGHT} for
translation tables
@item @code{@value{INSTLIB}/tab}, @*
@code{@value{INSTLIB}/map} and @*
@code{@value{INSTLIB}/pcx}
@item @code{LIB_DIR/tab}, @code{LIB_DIR/map} and @code{LIB_DIR/pcx}.
Where @code{LIB_DIR} is specified by the parameter @code{--path} and
BUFF_WIDTHxBUFF_HEIGHT is the size of the buffer in dezimal (e.g. 320x200).
@end enumerate











@node Other OS, Rules, Pathes, Mixed
@section Other Operating Systems

You can find the other versions at the official Cthugha home page
@code{http://www.afn.org/cthugha}.

@itemize @bullet

@item other @strong{unix} systems.

@code{xcthugha} should also work on non-Linux machines, but several
things will not work. Sound reading is probably the most important thing
that will not work (maybe something like @code{--play /dev/audio --silent}
works).


@item @strong{DOS} - Cthugha V5.1 and V5.3

This version of Cthugha-L is based on cthugha V5.1 and V5.3 by
Kevin Burfitt. Most things 
from the DOS-version work exactly the same way in the Linux-Version. 
Cthugha-L has a lot of additional features.


@item @strong{PowerMac} - MaCthugha

Rus Maxham (@code{rus@@interstice.com}) has done a port of Cthugha for the
PowerMac.


@item @strong{xf86cthugha}.

A special version of Cthugha-L supporting DGA
(Direct Graphics Access) with XFree86. 
Mark Vojkovich (@code{mvojkov@@ucsd.edu}) has done this version. You
can also find it at @code{ftp.afn.org} or via the WWW page. 

I included DGA support in some version, but I dropped it -- it only
makes problems (especially with fonts) and is not even faster.


@item @strong{Win95}.

Kevin Burfitt (@code{zaph@@torps.apana.org.au}) is currently working on a
new version of Cthugha for Windows 95. 


@item @strong{BeOS}.

There will (soon) be a version of Cthugha for BeOS.
Raphael Moll (@code{<raphael.moll@@capway.com>})
is working on this.

@end itemize












@node Rules, Press, Other OS, Mixed
@section Rules

So you want to add/modify the source code, just follow this simple rules.

@table @emph
@item Rule #1:
Go for it!!!  This is a free project - make it big! 

@item Rule #2:
Send me some Email telling me which bits you are playing with, 
and I will keep you up to date if I (or anyone else) make any 
major changes to the code. 

@item Rule #3:  
Put your name/email address in the code/credits, that way you get to 
share the fame :-) 

@item Rule #4:  
There is no Rule #4

@item Rule #5:
@emph{Please} keep me up to date, with any little functions or ideas 
you have... The program is evolving quickly, and I'd love to 
incorporate your ideas! 

@item Rule #6:  
Translation tables: 
If you design a weird and wonderful translation table, send 
me either the table or (even better) the code used to generate it! 

@item Rule #7: 
Don't Panic


@end table












@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Press, Who?, Rules, Mixed
@section What the press says

The following short quotes are about the original DOS Version of
Cthugha. Cthugha-L can do everything the original can, and a lot of
things more.
 
@quotation
It gives credence to the phrase 'I can see music'...There is no real 
way to describe the patterns except as weird.
@end quotation
@cite{Australian PC Review Oct '94}

@quotation
@emph{Wavy Data} @*
Upon first observation, oscilloscopes seems a bit ho-hum. After all, 
devices that graphically represent electrical waveforms on a display
screen tend to fall a bit short on the sex appeal scale. But if you
spend some time exploring the ways high-end oscilloscopes can visualize
data, you may start to think the machines are on drugs . . . 
Cthugha 5.1, an oscilloscope program for PC sound cards, has tuned in, 
turned on, and decidedly dropped out from the humdrum world of scientific
analog signal processing. The product of Australian code jock Kevin 
"Zaph" Burfitt, Cthugha takes your sound card's CD, line, or microphone 
input and displays it as a swirling, hypnotic, 256-color confection for 
your eyes. Although Cthugha currently requires MS-DOS, a VGA monitor, and
a Sound Blaster or Gravis UltraSound sound card, the complete C source 
code is part of the package, so you can port it, if you're so inclined.
@end quotation
@cite{WIRED 3.03 (p. 156: Music to Your Eyes)}






@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Who?, Tips, Press, Mixed
@section Who's this Cthugha dude anyway ? 

@emph{Cthugha} is hard to pronounce (Kuth-ooo-Ga), and spell. 
The name is an ancient name from the occults. 
The following is an extract from the texts that describe him (it) the best. 

@quotation 
Cthugha resembles an enormous burning mass continually varying in shape. 
It dwells at or near the star Fomalhaut, from whence it may be called. 
It is one of the most obscure and remote of all the Great Old Ones.
@end quotation
@cite{Call of Cthulhu - Chaosium}
 
When Cthugha is summoned he is always accompanied by Fire Vampires. 

@quotation 
There appeared thousands of tiny points of light. ... The myriad points of 
light were living entities of flame!  For wherever they touched, fire sprang 
up.
@end quotation
@cite{The dweller in Darkness, by August Derleth}




@node Tips, Future, Who?, Mixed
@c @section Tips


Tips section is not yet written.






@node Future, ,Tips, Mixed
@section The Future of Cthugha for Linux

Some plans I have with Cthugha for Linux:

@itemize @bullet

@item Make it more independent from Linux. I think @code{xcthugha}
should run on every unix system fast enough at least when using just
random data or a sound file as input.

@item Cut it down a little bit. This has already started. Screen saver
and DGA support are no longer included. More things might
follow. The whole thing is just getting too big for me. I will 
remove parts for which good alternatives exist or which are useless.

@item User interface. The current user interface is not really good --
here are some changes necessary.

@item Copying Policy. This is definitely not change. I will never charge
you for private use. I think about putting the whole thing under the GNU
public license.

@end itemize





