

@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Press, What?, Overview, Overview
@section What the press says

The following short quotes are about the original DOS Version of
Cthugha. Cthugha-L can do everything the original can, and a lot of
things more.
 
@quotation
It gives credence to the phrase 'I can see music'...There is no real 
way to describe the patterns except as weird.
@end quotation
@cite{Australian PC Review Oct '94}

@quotation
@emph{Wavy Data} @*
Upon first observation, oscilloscopes seems a bit ho-hum. After all, 
devices that graphically represent electrical waveforms on a display
screen tend to fall a bit short on the sex appeal scale. But if you
spend some time exploring the ways high-end oscilloscopes can visualize
data, you may start to think the machines are on drugs . . . 
Cthugha 5.1, an oscilloscope program for PC sound cards, has tuned in, 
turned on, and decidedly dropped out from the humdrum world of scientific
analog signal processing. The product of Australian code jock Kevin 
"Zaph" Burfitt, Cthugha takes your sound card's CD, line, or microphone 
input and displays it as a swirling, hypnotic, 256-color confection for 
your eyes. Although Cthugha currently requires MS-DOS, a VGA monitor, and
a Sound Blaster or Gravis UltraSound sound card, the complete C source 
code is part of the package, so you can port it, if you're so inclined.
@end quotation
@cite{WIRED 3.03 (p. 156: Music to Your Eyes)}
 

@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node What?, Who?, Press, Overview
 
@section What does this software do then ? 

Audio input seeded image processing. 
Hook up your CD player to the input of your sound card, 
or use your CD-ROM player (if you've got one). 
Run cthugha-L --- then play your coolest music. 
--- and wow, does your screen look like a 90's lava lamp or what? 
 
Cthugha 'listens' to your music, and changes the display dynamically 
to the sound.   
 
Ever looked at an oscilloscope of your voice or of music? ---
Think of this as an oscilloscope on acid. 
 
 
 
@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Fast Start, Flavors, Who?, Overview
@section Fast Start
 
Try one of these command lines to test Cthugha-L: 
@example
@group 
   No soundcard           :   xcthugha -x
   Soundcard (Line In)    :   xcthugha -L 100
   Soundcard (CD In)      :   xcthugha -C 100
@end group
@end example

Once Cthugha is running, try @key{F1} to bring up the Help Screen.




@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Flavors,, Fast Start, Overview
@section Flavors of Cthugha-L

@table @code

@item xcthugha
This program displays the graphics using X11.

@code{xcthugha} also runs in True and High Color displays, but 
it will run slower then. Currently @code{xcthugha} will not run 
on all possible displays.

@end table
