@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Sound and CD, Automatic Changer, Parameters, Parameters
@section Sound, CD and MixerOptions

If you don't specify a special input source, Cthugha uses the DSP device
with the the current mixer settings. 
Cthugha does not change the settings back after exit. You have
to do that manually if you want.

You should specify at least one source of input. Where you do that
(ini-file or command line) does not matter. But if no sound source is
given, it might happen that Cthugha does not get the sound even if you
specified a volume with programs like @code{mixer}.

@subsection Selecting the Sound Device

@table @code
@item -x, --no-sound
Debug mode (no sound-source). Cthugha uses some random noise.



@item --play NAME
Use a file as source for the sound. 
Cthugha plays the file over and over again. In future versions playing
multiple files will be possible.

Cthugha can play .wav files directly and by using external programs also
MOD files and MPEG Layer 3 files. To play .mod and .mp3 files 
@code{xmp}, @code{mpg123} and @code{l3dec} are currently supported.
The type of the file is identified by the extension only.

If you don't want to use the programs supported the following is
possible: @code{NAME} might be a fifo file, so you can so things like
@example
mkfifo fifo.wav
cat something.wav > fifo.wav &     
xcthugha --play fifo.wav
@end example

The old options @code{--exec}, @code{--mod}, ... are no longer needed.

@item --silent
This causes Cthugha to only read the sound data when using
@code{--play}, but not to play it.


@item --loop, --no-loop
Start playing the sound file over and over again, or play it only once
and exit afterwards.

@end table




@subsection General Sound Device Options

@table @code
@item -v, --rate N
Set sample rate to @code{N}. The default rate is set to 44000Hz.

@item -2, --stereo, -1, --no-stereo
Set the number of sound channels to use. (stereo by default).

@item --snd-format FMT
Set the format of the sound. This can be @code{8bit signed}, @code{8bit
unsigned}, @code{16bit signed le}, @code{16bit signed be}, 
@code{16bit unsigned le} or @code{16bit unsigned be}.

You usually don't need to change this option. 

@item --pulse-server SERVER
Specify the PulseAudio server used for playback passthrough. The same setting
can be placed in an ini file as @code{cthugha.pulse-server: SERVER}. If unset,
PulseAudio uses its default server.

@item --pulse-latency-ms N
Set the PulseAudio target playback latency in milliseconds. The same setting
can be placed in an ini file as @code{cthugha.pulse-latency-ms: N}. The default
is 2000 ms, matching PulseAudio's conservative default buffering more closely
for network playback.

@item --audio-output-dump FILE
Dump the PCM bytes submitted to the playback output as a WAV file. This is
intended for audio diagnostics; if the dump plays cleanly with @code{paplay},
the distortion is likely after Cthugha's output submission boundary.

@end table




@subsection Advanced Dound Device Options

@table @code
@item --snd-method M
Sets the sound method used. @code{M} is a number from 0 to 3. Lower
values correspond to more sophisticated sound reading methods. You can
try this method if Cthugha has problems with reading the sound.

@item --snd-sync
Reset the soundcard after reading the sound. 
You should not need this switch. You can try it if you have problems,
but it will only slow things down, and might produce unwanted
clicks.

@item --snd-fragments N
Sets how many sound fragments should be used. You might try to use a
small value, like 2 or 4. (You will then get recording overruns, but
that is normal). Simply use the default value (0 = let the system
decide).


@item --dev-dsp DEV
Specify which DSP device to use. This usually @code{/dev/dsp}, but on 
some systems it might be @code{/dev/audio}. 


@item --snd-buffer B
Set the size of the sound buffer size to B kB, when using --play.
@end table




@subsection CD Options

@table @code

@item --dev-cd DEV        
Set the CD device to @code{DEV}
                                  
@item --cd-stop
Stops CD on exit (only if CD was selected as input)

@item --cd-random
Play tracks in random order.

@item --cd-loop
Start again after all tracks are played.

@item --cd-eject
Eject CD at end.

@item -c, --track N
Use CD as input, and start playing track @code{N}. This option does not
change the volume used for the CD. So you also also have to use the
@code{--cd} parameter.


@end table



@subsection Mixer Options

@table @code

@item --dev-mixer DEV     
Set the mixer device to @code{DEV}


@item --mixer DEV:VOL
Set the mixer "device" @code{DEV} to volume @code{VOL}. 
Note that things like "bass" or "treble" are also mixer "devices".

@item -L, --line VOL
Use Line In as input with volume @code{VOL}. This is a shortcut for
@code{--mixer line:VOL}.

@item -M, --mic VOL
Use Mic (microphone) as input with volume @code{VOL}. This is a shortcut
for @code{--mixer mic:VOL}.

@item -C, --cd VOL
Use CD as input with volume @code{VOL}. This is a shortcut for
@code{--mixer cd:VOL}.
                               
@end table







@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Automatic Changer, General CoreOptions, Sound and CD, Parameters
@section Automatic Changer Options

Cthugha automatically changes the way the data is displayed to the
screen after some time, and after special events. All of this
features work independently from another.

Setting a timevalue to 0 disables the corresponding feature. You can
specify all the times in 1/100th of a second or in seconds. To specify a
time in seconds you have to appends @code{sec} after the number. So the
following two are equivalent: @code{--time 4.2sec} and @code{--time 420}.

@table @code

@item -l, --lock
Start in locked mode. That means that the display is not changed 
automatically.

@item --little
Only change one option at a time.
You can get nice results if you set low values for @code{--time} and
@code{--random} and enable this option. This way you get a constant
change, but no chaos.


@item -T, --min-time N
Minimum time before changing.

Cthugha will change the display after:
time + rand() % random.
Where time and random are given by this and the next option.

@item -R, --random-time N
Extra random time before changing.


@item --quite-time N
Change display after an "interrupted silence". 
That means that Cthugha changes the display
automatically, when for some time no sound comes in and after that there is
again sound (like the pause between two tracks on a CD). 



@item --msg-time N
How long to wait in silence until messages are displayed.

@item -q, --quiet-file FILE
Load alternate quiet messages from @code{FILE}. These are messages are
display if for a long time no sound comes in.

If a line in @code{FILE} starts with a @code{@@} then Cthugha runs 
@code{fortune} to get a message. 



@item --min-noise N

Set the level under which a sound is consider to be silent.


@item --fire-level N
This controls how often the display is changed on beats. Lower values
let the screen change more often.

@end table



@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node General CoreOptions, Initial Values, Automatic Changer, Parameters
@section Change options


@table @code

@item -S, --buff-size SIZE
Set the buffer size. You can use predefined sizes of specify a value
 of the form WIDTHxHEIGHT.

@item --no-trans
Disable translation tables. Translation tables are used to define almost
any affect you can think of. Use this option if Cthugha is not running
fast enough.

@item --stretch
Allow stretching of translation tables to fit buffer size.

@item --load-on-demand
Create and load translation tables only when they are needed. 
Only one translation table is kept in memory. 

@item --load-late
Load the translation tables only when they are needed. 
Once a translation table is loaded, it is kept in memory, so
each translation
table is loaded only once. This can save a lot of time when starting Cthugha.

@item -X, --no-pcx
Disable usage of PCX image files. 

@item --no-object
Do not load 3D objects (wire frames) used by some wave functions.
There are no such files included with Cthugha.

@item -s, --no-flashlight
Disable usage of Flashlights. 
Flashes (changes of the palette values with low index) will 
come up on loud beats.

This feature was called FFT in version 0.8 of Cthugha-L.


@end table


@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Initial Values, Display, General CoreOptions, Parameters
@section Disable options

Please use @code{xcthugha --help} for a list of these options.



@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Display, General, Initial Values, Parameters
@section Display Options

@table @code

@item -D, --disp-mode MODE
Set graphics mode or window size.

@item --zoom N
Set the zoom factor to N. A value of 0 will cause Cthugha to fill the
whole window.

@item --max-fps N
Set the maximal number of frames per second to N (0 for no limit). You
can limit the speed at which Cthugha is running with this option. This
might be usefull if you would like to use @code{xcthugha} as a desktop
decoration. 

@end table


@subsection SVGA Options

@table @code
@item -r, --sync
This option causes @code{cthugha} to wait for a resync before the buffer
is displayed on the screen. So screen update and video refresh are
synchronized. @code{--sync} causes a slight decrease in speed.


@item --disp-direct
Display directly to screen when using running in 320x200 mode.
When runing on this option some flicker occurs when text is displayed.

@end table


@subsection X11 Options

@table @code
@item --root
Draw onto the root window (the background of your desktop).

@item --install
Install a private colormap when running in a PseudoColor visual (8bit). 
This increases performance, but the windows of all the other windows
will be displayed wrong then.

@item --mit-shm
Use the MIT Shared Memory Extensions when displaying with X11. This
option brings an significant increase in speed.

You should only deactivate it if
you have problems.

@item --full-screen
Let @code{xcthugha} fill the whole screen. To do that @code{xcthugha}
fights with the window manager so I am not sure how reliable this really
is.


@item --panel
Show a control panel with some buttons for common operations.

@item --position NN
Set the position of the Cthugha window. Use for example as
@code{--position +10+20}. The normal @code{-geometry} option is not
working (it sets the position of the control panel).

@item --text-on-term
Display all text messages in the calling xterm or print all text
messages over the buffer or into the control panel.

@item --no-decorate
Do not decoreate the window (set is Cthugha sets the override_redirect
flag). 

@item --font F
Set the font to use when displaying text messages.

@end table


@subsection GL Options

@table @code

@item --mesh-size S
Set how fine to make the mesh for 3D displays. Bigger values will make a
finer mesh and will take longer to display.

@item --texture-quality Q
Set the quality of the texture (low, medium, high) to use.

@item --hints H
Set the @code{glHints} for perspective correction and fog to @code{fast}
(better quality) or  @code{nice} (faster).

@item --dither 
Turn on or off dithering. This influences the speed of @code{glcthugha}.

@item -window, --full-screen
Run @code{glcthugha} in a window or full screen. This only has an effect
when using Mesa and a 3Dfx card. Running full screen is usually much
faster, while for debugging a window is very usefull.


@end table



@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node General, , Display, Parameters
@section General Options

@table @code
@item -E, --path LIB_DIR
Specifies an additional directory where to search for tab, map and
pcx-files. Cthugha also searches for an ini file
@code{LIB_DIR/cthugha.ini}.


@item --keymap KEYMAP
Load extra keyboard bindings from @code{KEYMAP}.


@item --dbl-load
Allow loading of 2 or more palettes, translation tables or PCX images with
the same name. 

@item --prt-file FILE
File used to save screen at PrintScreen. 
The extensions and a number are appended automatically.
So the first saved file is @code{FILE.pcx}, the second is @code{FILE.1.pcx}, the
third is @code{FILE.2.pcx} and so on. When saving under @code{xcthugha}
the images are in Xpm format.


@item --no-esc
If this option is given then the esc-key is ignored. 
You should no longer need this switch, I still keep
it just in case.


@item --save
Save current wave, flame, display and some more things  at end. 
The settings are saved in the file @code{$@{HOME@}/.cthugha.auto}.


@item --verbose=LVL
Set the amount of extra information to print. The higher @code{LVL}, the
more information. The parameter is optional. Using only @code{--verbose}
sets a level of 3.



@item -?, --help
Print help information.

@end table
