@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

@node General Stuff, Palette Files, , Technical Stuff

@section General Stuff

@itemize @bullet
@item
I've testes Cthugha-L with a SoundBlaster 16. Cthugha-L should work 
with (almost) every soundcard supported by Linux.

I hear sometimes from people that Cthugha is getting no sound. I am not
sure why such things happen -- I think the sound reading code (at least
when using @code{--snd-method 1}) should work.

@item
You CD-ROM @emph{must} be connected to your soundcard. It is not enough
that it can play audio CDs. The
important thing is, that the computer gets the sound data.

If there is a small audio cable (inside your computer) from your CD-ROM
to your Soundcard it should work. If there is no such connection the
only chance left is the program @code{cdda2wav} (by Heiko
<@code{heiko@@colossus.escape.de}>). That program 
reads the audio data from the CD and stores it to your
hard disk. You can then use that data with the @code{--play} option.


@item
I constantly work on Cthugha-L - so when I remove one bug, I might
introduce two new ones. If you find bugs, inefficient code, or have any
wishes for new features please tell me about it.

@end itemize



@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Palette Files, Translation Tables, General Stuff, Technical Stuff
@section Palette Files

 
The format is the same that @code{fractint} uses.  If not all color indexes 
are specified then they default to black.  The color values are 
specified in RGB tuples (0-255), where 0 is black --- one line per color
index.  Easy ! 

@example 
255 255 255 comments index 0 
... ... ... 
255 255 255 comments color index 255 
@end example
 
 
 
@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node Translation Tables, PCX Files ,Palette Files, Technical Stuff
@section  Translation Tables

These tables (TAB files) are used to design just about @emph{any} effect, 
without recompiling the source to Cthugha!!! 

Since version 1.0 you can use the translation table in 2 different ways.
Cthugha can generate the table when it is starting, or you can generate
the tables in advance. The later is used for for which you don't have the source.

Some of the program to create the translation tables have quite a lot of
options, experiment with them - if you create a new nice translation table
send me the options you used (or the modifications to the code you made).
 

@subheading Here's how they work

This is a bit technical. You need this part only if you want to write new
translation-table-generation-programs (nice word, isn't it).

You generate a table, @code{BUFF_WIDTH}x@code{BUFF_HEIGHT}, of 
integers.
The integer represents the @emph{source} pixel 
for this @emph{destination} pixel. 
In other words: The numbers specify where each pixel comes from.

@example
@group
@r{e.g  in a small 3x3 world, to rotate to the left.. }

1, 2, 0,   @r{so pixel 1 is moved to position 0, and so on}
4, 5, 3, 
7, 8, 6 
@end group
@end example

What kind of integers are used (@code{short} or
@code{long}) depends on the size of the buffer (If > 64k longs are
used). @code{tint} and @code{utint} are defined in @code{cth_buffer.h}
to give you the right kind of integer to use. 

  
Read the source of some @code{mk*.c} files to try to work out how it works, or 
send me some email! 


@subheading Translation table generation

Built-in translation tables are generated in-process during visual
startup.  A generator receives the desired buffer size and an option
set, then creates one source-pixel index for each destination pixel.
The same generator can be registered multiple times with different
names and parameters.

@c %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
@node PCX Files, ,Translation Tables, Technical Stuff
@section PCX Files

PCX files are pictures used by Cthugha. They are decoded into indexed images
that can be injected into the visual mix. You can also force the next image to
the screen by pressing @key{X}. Cthugha can read the palette stored in a PCX
file.

For information about the format of such an image, read a book about 
file formats. PCX is a very simple form of saving pictures, used here for
compatibility with the DOS version. Maybe in future versions also other file
formats will be supported.
